---
title: Layout
description: A layout reference.
---

## Directory Layout

```
baselines/  ---> Baseline profiles containing all the rules
build/      ---> Script output directory. Contains scripts, documents, and 
                 mobileconfig files generated by scripts
custom/     ---> Custom rules and sections
includes/   ---> supporting files for build scripts
rules/      ---> Rules for securing the operating system; YAML content 
                 with one rule per file
SCAP/       ---> Makefile, scripts, and required content for SCAP generation
scripts/    ---> Scripts to generate reports and configuration 
sections/   ---> YAML configurations for sections in generating the guides
templates/  ---> AsciiDoc templates
```

### baselines
The baselines directory contains the defined baseline files for:

* NIST SP 800-53 rev5 Low, Moderate, and High
* NIST SP 800-171 Rev2
* DISA STIG
* CIS Level 1 & 2
* CIS Controls Version 8
* CMMC Level 1 & 2
* CNSSI 1253 Low, Moderate, and High
* indigo Base & High
* A baseline for all the rules in this repository

### build
The build directory stores generated outputs such as documents and mobileconfig files.

### custom
Use the custom directory to create tailored versions of the rules and sections files to meet your organization's requirements. YAML files in this folder take priority when you run `generate_guidance.py`.

**📌 NOTE**\
The filenames must remain the same as the original YAML filenames.

### includes
The includes directory contains YAML-based libraries required for currently developed scripts.

### rules
The rules directory includes the following categories of control settings for configuring the operating system:

* audit - configuration and enforcement of the OpenBSM settings.
* auth - configuration and enforcement of smartcard authentication.
* icloud - configuration of Apple's iCloud/Apple ID service.
* os - rules to configure the operating system that are not defined within other categories of the rules directory.
* pwpolicy - configuration and enforcement of password policy.
* supplemental - additional information to support the guidance provided by the baselines.
* system_settings (sysprefs on macOS Monterey and older) - configuration and enforcement of settings controlled within the System Settings/System Preferences application.

### SCAP
The SCAP directory stores required Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations (XSL) files, the CPE oval and definition, and scripts to generate an SCAP document.

### scripts
The scripts directory stores scripts for creating specific baselines, along with the required files for them.

### sections
The sections directory defines the different sections that correlate to the directories in the rules folder. The YAML files contain the name and descriptions as they appear in the generated guide.

### templates
The templates directory includes AsciiDoc templates for generating an AsciiDoc guide.
